well howdy there internet village bow
again so today we're going to talk about
a bygone era the wholesome 1950s that's
an image that people have George
Santayana died goodbye
in 1952 it's kind of fitting that he
died then he's the guy those who cannot
remember the past are condemned to
repeat it
and it makes sense now that's saying
it's been said in a bunch of different
ways over the years but when you're
talking about the 1950s man it makes
sense because we have that image we have
that image of this wholesome Leave It to
Beaver type life and people want to
reach back to it in fact there are
certain political slogans today that
reference it and that's the idea when
you ask people what they mean you know
when you see that red hat and you say
when was it you want to make America
great when are you talking about most
times they say the 1950s because they
have this idea this image that comes
from movies but what if there's a reason
that image exists and it wasn't reality
we need to remember that the same era
they gave us the wholesome Doris Day
gave us Marilyn Monroe and Brigitte
Bardot who today are kind of seen as the
first icons of well let's just say the
less than wholesome you look to Broadway
and you have South Pacific in 1949
addressing interracial relationships you
have the king and honor and when you
look at it today you're like man that
that that's kind of racist because it is
but some of the themes that were being
addressed when you look at them in
context of the times and substitute Siam
for other locations in Southeast Asia
where the former colonial powers might
have been trying to
foothold it kind of takes on new meaning
the wholesome 1950s gave us James Dean
and Robert without a cause
let's see those are just a couple the
movies overall is super wholesome
because there was a thing called the
production code and the production code
didn't allow discussion of any
controversial topics at all you could
make fun of religion you couldn't talk
about certain substances unless it was
in a bad light you couldn't talk about
family planning or extramarital
activities you couldn't do any of that
that's why that image exists but the
thing is the fact that those rules
existed saying you couldn't talk about
those things shows that it wasn't
reality because if it wasn't going on in
the real world there would be no reason
to prohibit it from being in movies but
this wouldn't show up art does imitate
life the best place to look if you want
to get a real view of that period isn't
movies it's books you have Catcher in
the Rye 1951 became a symbol of being
nonconformist why because the 1950s was
shoving it down your throat
you got to be this way people didn't
like it they became rebels without
causes and that book was highly
denigrated by many of those in wholesome
communities and shortly thereafter
Peyton Place came out and just put a big
old mirror on the hypocrisy the books
are where it's at the books will tell
you about the 1950s Jack Kerouac you
know that's a Soviet associated with the
60s and 70s on the road 1957
the 50s were not all leave it to be blue
and it wasn't confined to the u.s.
Forest astronaut dr. Zhivago was
finished the same in 1957 and that
counterculture narrative that kind of
cast a bland eye on the October
Revolution was so counter to the
narrative the established narrative in
the Soviet Union there's a CIA push the
book and tried to get it out there
because it would undermine the Soviets
because the narrative in films that's
what they wanted people to think it was
like that's what they wanted it to be
like and they exercised a great deal of
control over it but that's not what it
was really like and then when you step
just outside of the 50s into the 60s
1961 you have stranger in a strange land
that openly questioned well everything
everything almost all social norms some
of them in my opinion don't need to be
questioned but hey whatever the question
can be asked so when people say make
America great and they're looking to the
1950s they're looking back to a
mythology now looking back to something
that never existed it wasn't real
it was a censored politically correct
version of the times it wasn't reality
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night